death Whitman
To think of to-day, and the ages continued henceforward!
Have you guess'd you yourself would not continue?
Have you dreaded these earth - beetles?
Have you fear'd the future would be nothing to you?
To think that we are now here, and bear our part!
Not a day passes - not a minute or second, without a corpse!
The dull nights go over, and the dull days also,
He is decently put away - is there anything more?
The sky continues beautiful,
Yourself! Yourself! Yourself, forever and ever!
Pleasantly and well-suited I walk,
How perfect the earth, and the minutest thing upon it!
What is called good is perfect, and what is called bad is just as perfect,
This is thy hour O Soul, thy free flight into the wordless
When lilacs last in the dooryard bloom'd

love Whitman
Love-thoughts, love-juice, love-odor, love-yielding, love-climbers,
Soft forenoon airs that blow from the south-west,
The wet of woods through the early hours,
Every day at sundown for your dear sake my love.
Now we have met, we have look'd, we are safe,
I too am part of that ocean, my love, we are not so much separated,
But as for me, for you, the irresistible sea is to separate us,
Simple and fresh and fair from winter's close emerging
You air that serves me with breath to speak!

love Shakespeare
From fairest creatures we desire increase, that thereby beauty's rose might never die.
Those hours, that with gentle work did frame the lovely gaze where every eye doth dwell.
Not from the stars do I my judgment pluck; and yet methinks I have astronomy.
Let me confess that we two must be twain, Although our undivided loves are one.
O, how thy worth with manners may I sing, When thou art all the better part of me.
Mine eye and heart are at a mortal war How to divide the conquest of thy sight.
Against that time, if ever that time come, When I shall see thee frown on my defects,
So are you to my thoughts as food to life, Or as sweet-season'd showers are to the ground.

death Shakespeare
As fast as thou shalt wane, so fast thou growest in one of thine, from that which thou departest.
When I do count the clock that tells the time, and see the brave day sunk in hideous night.
When I consider every thing that grows holds in perfection but a little moment,
But wherefore do not you a mightier way make war upon this bloody tyrant, Time?
As an unperfect actor on the stage who with his fear is put besides his part,
Weary with toil, I haste me to my bed, the dear repose for limbs with travel tired.
When to the sessions of sweet silent thought I summon up remembrance of things past.
Full many a glorious morning have I seen Flatter the mountain-tops with sovereign eye.
How heavy do I journey on the way, When what I seek, my weary travel's end.
Like as the waves make towards the pebbled shore, So do our minutes hasten to their end.

love Keats
A thing of beauty is a joy for ever: its loveliness increases,
You say you love,
Ah! dearest love, sweet home of all my fears,
Then, heaven! there will be a warmer June for me.
Many and many a verse I hope to write,
The poetry of earth is ceasing never:

death Keats
I see a lilly on thy brow,
And this is why I sojourn here
My heart aches, and a drowsy numbness pains my sense, as though of hemlock I had drunk.
The day is gone, and all its sweets are gone!
Faded the sight of beauty from my eyes,
And seal the hushèd casket of my soul.
He mourns that day so soon has glided by:
So in my veins red life might stream again.
When I have fears that I may cease to be,
Like rose leaves with the drip of Summer rains.
The calmest thoughts came round us; as of leaves.
Where are the songs of Spring? Ay, where are they?
And gathering swallows twitter in the skies.

death Dickinson
Presentiment is that long shadow on the lawn,
The Brain is wider than the sky for, put them side by side
We do not play on Graves because there isn't Room
It makes the parting tranquil
And Service, like a Drum - Kept beating - beating - till I thought

love Dickinson
The sun just touched the morning; the morning, happy thing, supposed that he had come to dwell
He fumbles at your soul as players at the keys
If you were coming in the fall, I'd brush the summer by
That till I loved, I never lived.
MY river runs to thee:
The realm of you.
I have no life but this,
And then you and I were silenter.
My friend must be a bird,
And now, I ’m different from before,
Love is anterior to life,